---
layout: ensemble-member
about: T.J. Borden
---
A dedicated purveyor of modern music, Tyler J. Borden has performed with contemporary luminaries such as the JACK Quartet, Tony Conrad, Steve McCaffery, and Ensemble Offspring (Australia). He has performed at Alvin Lucier’s 85th Birthday Festival (Switzerland), Musikprotokall (Austria), June in Buffalo, Darmstadt Ferienkurse für Neue Musik, VIPA Festival (Valencia, Spain), Queens New Music Festival (NYC), and the MATA Inteval Series (NYC).  Tyler has worked with established composers such as Brian Ferneyhough, Catherine Lamb, Josh Levine, Alvin Lucier, Steve Takasugi, and La Monte Young, but he is particularly interested in the music of his generation and has worked extensively with young composers such as Paul Hembree, Ben Isaacs, Hunjoo Jung, Jenna Lyle, and Rob Phillips.  Currently, he is core member of [Switch~ Ensemble], which focuses on the performance of electroacoustic works and has worked closely with many composers, including Philippe Leroux, James Bean, and Timothy McCormack.  As a creative force, Tyler regularly collaborates in various capacities, most of which are improvisational in nature.  He has performed in that capacity throughout North America and Europe and his improvisations were included  in Guggenheim Fellow Kasumi’s film Shockwaves.  Tyler J. Borden grew up in Rochester, NY and studied at Ithaca College and SUNY Buffalo, where his primary cello teachers were Elizabeth Simkin and Jonathan Golove, respectively.  He is currently pursuing his DMA at UC San Diego with Charles Curtis.
