---
layout: page
title: About
headerImage: header-switch-CMC.jpg
---

## Artistic Statement

A new music ensemble for the 21st Century, the [Switch~ Ensemble] is dedicated to the creation and performance of new works for chamber ensemble and real-time interactive computer processing. These projects often require technological integration that is atypical of the current structural and organizational paradigms of new music ensembles. This necessitates direct collaboration with composers, improvisers, and sound artists throughout their creative process, optimized for needs that differ radically from the creation and rehearsal of acoustic music and allowing for perpetual experimentation and refinement. We believe that working directly with composers in a medium that is often not fully notated, the score becomes a departure point rather than an ideal to be adhered to, allowing for new and exciting musical and dramaturgical situations to arise in live performance. 
Our 2017-2018 season includes residencies Cornell, Ithaca College, Bard College, and Buffalo State, as well as performances and recitals in New York City, San Francisco, and throughout the United States.

In the summer of 2016, the [Switch~ Ensemble] served as ensemble-in-residence at the Valencia International Performance Academy in Spain. There, [Switch~] worked alongside faculty and participant composers, led workshops and masterclasses, and performed the premieres of a dozen works, including two newly commissioned pieces by Timothy McCormack and James Bean. In May of 2017, [Switch~] premiered works for ensemble and electronics by seven doctoral students as ensemble-in-residence at the University of Chicago. Other recent highlights and invitations include an artist residency at Avaloch Farms Music Institute, the CD release of our recording of Christopher Chandler’s Smoke and Mirrors on the SEAMUS label, and featured concerts on the MATA Interval Series, the New York City Electroacoustic Music Festival, the Queens New Music Festival (QNMF), and the Vanguard New Music Series at Kent State University.

We believe that working directly with composers throughout their creative process -- in a medium where the score is a departure point rather than a finish line -- allows for new and thrilling musical possibilities, optimizing our performance and collaborative practice for needs that differ radically from the creation and rehearsal of acoustic music while allowing for perpetual experimentation and refinement. [Switch~] contributes to the future of the genre by strongly advocating for and commissioning the music of a new generation of emerging young composers. We have additionally enjoyed fruitful collaborations with composers Rand Steiger, Philippe Leroux, Stefan Prins, Wojtek Blecharz, Anna-Louise Walton, Bryan Jacobs, Stefano Gervasoni, Panayiotis Kokoras, and many others, including American premieres of works by Alexander Schubert, Santiago Diez-Fischer, and Lisa Streich.

Founded in 2012 at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, NY as a flexible-size professional Ensemble-in-Residence at the Eastman Computer Music Center, the [Switch~ Ensemble] looks toward the future of contemporary music. We're dedicated to high-level chamber music performance integrated with cutting-edge technology and multimedia, supporting emerging and early career composers to create bold new works featuring multimedia and electroacoustic elements, and are passionate about helping to build a diverse canon of 21st century works that leaves space for all voices—especially those that, historically, have been excluded from our fields. At the core of each performance is our commitment of total integration between technology and live performance -- our goal is compelling artistry achieved through seamless production, creation, and execution.

{%- include ensemble-listing.html -%}
